# IP Detective: Patent infringement detection using BERT
Patents play a significant part in innovation and helps individuals and companies safeguard and retain ownership of their ideas. However, patent infringement is common, and more than 2,500 patent infringement suits are filed each year. Currently, patent infringement detection is largely done manually, and companies spend approximately $600 to identify each case of infringement. Our work provides an approach to automate this process through machine learning. Our model first vectorizes patent text using a BERT model trained on patent text, and then calculates similarity scores between competing patent claims. We developed an architecture that not only identifies the similarity of two patents at an overall level, but also on each subsection and crossevaluates the similarity between these sections. This was implemented by creating a matrix of all possible subsection combinations between two patents and populating the matrix with relevant ‘similarity’ scores. The overall score is then calculated by taking a weighted average of the subsection similarities, where the weights were calculated by training a logistic regression model based on historical cases of infringement. Looking at subsection scores along with the overall score, we can identify potential infringement of two competing patent claims rather accurately. 

Presented the solution at INFORMS 2022 Business Analytics Conference and Midwest 2022 Decision Sciences Conference
 
More Details: https://mwdsi2022.exordo.com/files/papers/46/paper_custom_fields/1/IP2022_Bonutti_Paper_v2.pdf
